Backstory:
Humanity failed to save itself from climate change, disease, etc.  So they built colony ships, each containing about a million people from every walk of life.  Warp drive was still in it's infancy, ans was scarcely capable of breaking light speed.  97 of these colony ships were built and launched, each to different stars around the milky way.  The ships were guided automatically, and the entire crew of the ship were put into hibernation.  Shortly after the 97th ship was launched, the ships still near enough to receive status updates lost contact with Earth.  These colony ships were on their own. This event, and the ensuing period of colonization is referred to as The Great Diaspora.

Most of the ships failed en route, or never made it to a habitable world, but 23 successfully arrived at their destinations.  13 of those spawned a short-lived colony that succumbed to disease, their environment, or their own ineptitude.  Of the remaining 10, 7 established a true colony that grew into prosperity.  The ships did not all arrive at the same time however.  The first arrivals were close to earth and were launched early, but did not arrive until thousands of years had passed.  The final successful colony was established around 2000 years after the first.

Life was hard at first, and progress was slow.  Each colony experienced significant population loss in the first few decades after arrival, due to the durastic change in environment.  After a couple hundred years, the successful 7 colonies had reached a level of stability that allowed them time to ponder their place inthe universe, and who they are.  After a thousand years on their new homes, they began to notice that they resembled the Humans of Earth less and less.  It took the most successful of the colonies around 3000 years to re-achieve spaceflight, and by then, their populations had clearly become something other than human.

The first colony ship to arrive at it's destination arrived on a verdant world, teeming with life.  It had everything they needed to build a life, but predators were abundant and bold.  Subsistence was easy, but progress was extremely difficult.  They developed a culture of living in harmony with their environment, and eschewed most technological trappings of the past.  Their world was slightly smaller then Earth, and they grew tall and fair over time.  Some even developed extraordinary abilities - affecting the world around them through thought alone.  When the time came to choose a name for themselves, they decided upon the Gaians, named after their world of Gaia.  They later became known colloquially as Sylvans or Elves.  By the time they made contact with the other races, they'd developed great magic powers and an arrogant character, governing themselves with a mix of tribal and feudal governments.

One colony ship did not make it to a habitable world, but found itself in close proximity to a very young solar system.  The abundance of raw resources was a great boon, but with no solid ground to build upon, they were forced to improvise their own world.  This colony experienced terrible attrition, with it's population dipping as low as the hundreds at it's worst.  They lost a great deal of genetic diversity, but evolved and adapte to compensate.  These people became the race known as Astrals, though they are more commonly called gnomes or halflings.  They spend their entire lives in zero gravity, and are easily the best ship-builders and spacefarers in the galaxy,  They are very small, rarely growing much taller than a meter, and their feet are prehensile.  They are physically fragile, and are all but useless in a significant gravity field.  They are highly intelligent, and masters of improvisation, however, so those who must venture down to a planet, or work with gravity-dependant races have special garments and equipment to assist them.  Their government tends to be very strict and pragmatic - there is little room for deviation in the cold of space

A mere 31 light years away from the Astral colony, and 120 years later, Another colony ship made landfall on a large world, poor in life, but rich in scientific curiosities.  These people, who later became known as the Stoutheart, grew short, but very stout under the planet's high gravity.  They were lucky, in that they had relatively little difficulty establishing a successful colony, and were the first to re-develop modern technology.  Their culture focused greatly on science and advancement, and are among the most intelligent beings in the galaxy.  They're also highly progressive, with the purest democracy the galaxy has ever seen.  Some call these people Dwarves, but they are not the gruff and greedy race of other settings.  They are very hardy, but not especially nimble.  They are also especially long lived - the oldest recorded Stoutheart lived to nearly 300 years.  Due to their proximity to the Astrals, the two were the first successor races to make contact.  While there was some animosity at first, they formed a close relationship that has lasted for thousands of years.

Colony Ship 'Lazarus' arrved at a world that was remarkably earth-like.  It's gravity was 1.07g and it had a biosphere only a few milion years younger than earth's, at the time of departure. The people established a colony quickly, but found themselves with a great deficit of ambition and drive.  They reached sustainability after a few hundred years, and remained at an agrarian level of development for nearly a thousand years.  Life was good, but this lethargy was no accident.  These Terrans, as they would become known, had unknowingly encroached upon the territiry of a highly advanced species of bacteria, now known as Somaphage.  The entire population became lightly infected in no time, and it had an adverse effect upon their drive for progress.  Eventually, the bacteria mutated and Terrans with especially large populations begane to exhibit the opposite effect - becoming greatly driven, as if posessed by the sprit of another race.  These individuals easily subjugated the non-infested members of the species.  Eventually it became clear to them that they were different in some way, and it became known that their large infections of Somaphage were behind their uniqueness.  The concentrated infestations had actually formed a hive mind that merged with the host Terran personality to create a union that was far greater than the sum of it's parts.  This new self-awareness unlocked great abilities to these heavily-infected individuals, who call themselves the Ascended.  They first created a vaccine to prevent the rest of the Terran population from acquiring the critical mass of Sompahage to ascend, so that they could strictly control the Ascended and Terran populations.  They eventually discovered that being Ascended also made them immortal - they could live indefinitely.  The intelligent Somaphage could 'optimize' their bodies to be almost completely immune to disease or age.  They could also heal very rapidly.  Most of all, they develop psychic powers - being able to affect the minds of others.  This all comes at a cost, however. Their bodies become very thin, and their skin loses it's colour.  They look as if they're dead.  Moreover, their reproductive and digestive systems become all but vestigial.  They derive sustainance from a combination of intravenous nutrition and drinking the blood of Terrans.  The blood is also needed to replace their own, as fully Ascended lose much of their red blood cell production.  The low-level Somaphage populations present in all Terrans also provide disease resistance and faster healing, but none of the psychic abilities or biological drawbacks.  A large Somaphage infection can also reanimate a deceased Terran, though the population of Sompahage cells must be boosted very soon after death.  If enough Somaphage cells are administered to fully Ascend a living Terran, they can repair enough damage to fully reanimate, but the mental faculties of the reanimated being are determined by the amount of time that passes between brain-death and administration.  If administration occurs less than an hour after brain-death (and the central nervous system remains intact), there will be very little difference between the resulting organism and a 'normally' Ascended individual.  If less than 6 hours pass, the resulting being will be sapient, but will lose most of their personality and memories (these being are fairly rare, and are generally called 'Lesser Ascended').  If less than 24 hours passes, the resulting being will be referred to as a Ghoul.  They will have no personality or memories, but will be capable of some high-level thought.  These beings, while technically autonomous, are generally employed as labourers, and viewed as little more than property.  If the body is allowed to decompose for more than 24 hours, but before the central nervous system decomposes entirely, a Drone can be created.  These have no mind of their own, and while technically reanimated, must be directly controlled by an Ascended via the latter's psychic ability. Recently, a device has been invented to make a Drone operate independantly without psychic control.  Drones with these controller devices are referred to as Servitors, and are often augmented with cybernetics as well. The Ascended form a small ruling class over the Terrans, with the latter being generally content being a subservient race, but some Terran populations have begun to exhibit an immmunity to Somaphage, and those Terrans tend towards discontent with their society, some even leaving entirely to form Sompahage-free Terran communities.  They call themselves 'Free Terrans' and call the Ascended 'Vamps' derisively.

The Yetari colonized a small, but dense world on the outside edge of it's star's habitable zone. The poles are utterly uninhabitable, and the equatorial regions are rarely warmer than 20 degrees celsius.  These people grew large, and very hairy.  The life already present on their world, Winter, tended towards very large mammals, so they developed an aggressive, yet collaborative culture.  Hunting remained an important part of their lives even after establishing high technology.  They are also highly spiritual - believing in a great presence spanning the entire universe that gives life and energy to all things.  What they (and everyone else) don't know is that they're actually right, in a way.  This presence, that they call The Allspirit, is actually responsible for the Ascended psychic abilites as well as Gaian magic.  They have their own mysical powers, but they are mainly used for healing and protection.  The Stoutheart made contact with them first, but did not pursue a relationship with them after their experience with the Gaians.  Once they made contact with the Gaians, however, a great holy war broke out between the two.  An Alliance between the StoutHeart, Astrals, and Terrans eventually intervened after hundreds of years of highly destructive warfare.  The war was ended, and both races were forced to join the newly-formed council of Successors, but animosity between them remains.

The Aquans colonized a world with only 10% of it's surface being land.  Can hold their breath for about an hour, and are masters of aquatic agriculture and colonization.  They are also very at home in space due to the simularities between being underwater and in microgravity.  They tended to expand their territory faster tham the other races, being the first to re-invent colonization technology. This brought them into opposition with the StoutHeart, who developed spacefaring technology shortly after them,

The Avial race landed on a primordial world, similar to Gaia, and also had their development slowed by their environment.  Instead of living in harmony with it, however, they chose to overcome it.  Their skin grew hard and scaley, and they developed flaps of skin connecting their arms to their trunks.  They also grew very light, which allowed them to glide from clifftops.  They grew sharp and strong claws on their feet, and horns on their head.  They suffered a small decrease in intelligence, and an increase in aggressveness.  They also began to produce multiple offspring with great regularity, so their population boomed quickly.  Their lives became short and intense, and they were the only race to regularly war with themselves at the time of contact with the other successor races.  While their homeworld of Avia Prima is under their control entirely, the vast majority of their race has simply spread out among the other races colonies.  They are highly individualistic, so they have great difficulty forming co-operative groups.

The Verde colonized a large world that orbits it's star much closer than Earth did.  Their advancement was slowed by the near-absolute absence of animal life on their world.  They grew short and gangly.  A brilliant biologist in the initial group invented a method to tattoo an entire person's body with photosynthetic bacteria.  They still required a lot of plant material in their diet (though less than average due to their short stature), but could survive for a very long time on sunlight alone. Over time, the tattood bacteria worked it's way into their genome, so modern Verde are actually born with photosynthetic skin.  Their lives tended to be short, with most living only to the age of 60, but their gestation period grew very short - only 3 months.  In addition, they reach full maturity after only 10 years.  They became rather intelligent, and rely a great deal on cooperation.  The other races consider them ugly and dirty, so they never joined the council of Successors.  Their empire is small, but it contains the homeworld of the Orcs, and as a result, most orcs that do not live on their homeworld are in the employ of Verde.  Colloquially, the Verde are referred to as 'Goblins' though they hate this name.  While they do have starships, most Verde hate being in enclosed spaces.  Their ships are always extremely brightly lit, to leverage their photosynetic skin in an attempt to reduce the need to carry supplies.  They have a particular animosity towards the Astral - and it is not at all uncommon to witness violence break out between the two races at any opportunity.

The Orcs landed on a world with a great deal of animal life, but little in the way of edible plant life.  These humans were in for a terrible future. Their diets became highly carnivorous, and their culture bacame very brutish and cynical.  They grew taller and stronger than earth Humans, and their teeth became large and sharp, eventually developing small tusks on their lower jaws.  These Orcs as they became known, never advanced past a tribal society, but became the greatest warriors to ever live.  Like the Avial, they do not have a central government, but integrated into the other empires.  Their skin tends to be on the darker side, but the harsh sun of their world necessitated covering up all of one's skin with a green paint made from some native plants.  This became a central part of their culture, and they developed permanent methods to cover their skin in this 'Green Skin'.  It is extrenemely rare to see an Orc whose skin is not entirely coated in the substance.
